			       Resume of
			     SEAN MacLENNAN
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
			     seanm@seanm.ca
			  http://www.seanm.ca/
		      http://github.com/smaclennan/
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

WORK EXPERIENCE

  I have extensive experience in real-time and Linux kernels, C, assembler,
  Linux/Unix, and network protocols.

  Dec. 2017 - Present    QNX
  Nov. 2015 - Nov. 2017  Diablo Technologies
  Jan. 2011 - Nov. 2015  Afore Solutions
  July 2005 - Jan. 2011  Pika Technologies Inc.
  July 2003 - July 2005  PointShot Wireless
  Jan. 2001 - July 2003  Pika Technologies Inc.
  Oct. 1999 - Jan. 2001  Rebel.com
  Sep. 1996 - Sep. 1999  Pika Technologies Inc.
  Sep. 1990 - Aug. 1996  Multiprocessor Toolsmiths Inc.
  June 1989 - July 1990  Ursel
  Aug. 1987 - June 1989  Gandalf


SUMMARY OF WORK EXPERIENCE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

QNX

Part of the coreos group which was responsible for the kernel, libc,
and ldqnx.

Initially worked on the hypervisor.

Was part of the effort to remove the big kernel lock and move to fine
grained locking. The effort was made harder because we were not
allowed to have nested mutexes.

While I worked on a lot of different projects, some of the big ones
where:

* Implemented signals for the new kernel.
* Ported ptmalloc to QNX.
* Ported PPC from the really old kernel to the old kernel. Yes, PPC in
  2020s.

DIABLO TECHNOLOGIES

  Diablo produced flash memory as core memory: first as a hardware
  solution and then with off the shelf NVME drives.

  As a Linux kernel driver developer I worked on all aspects of the
  drivers. But I mainly focused on the page fault path and storage
  (writing to flash) portions of the drivers.

  I also worked on the user-mode portion of the drivers. Diablo used a
  shared library to intercept specific library calls (e.g. mmap and
  malloc) and redirects them to the Diablo driver.

  I was also responsible for porting to different Linux distros and
  versions of the kernel.

AFORE SOLUTIONS

  Worked on a system to secure root and data disks on Linux and
  Windows. Implemented a method to get a key over the network and boot
  into windows to pass the key to Bitlocker. Wrote support for
  UEFI. Also responsible for getting the key for multiple Linux
  distros.

  Worked on a secure storage appliance for Vmware and cloud
  environments. Was responsible for storage, VPN extensions, and most
  of the C and shell script based code.

  Responsible for rapid R&D development to prove or reject new and old
  technologies.

  Afore Solutions re-branded as CloudLink and was then bought by EMC,
  which became Dell-EMC.

PIKA TECHNOLOGIES INC.

  Was responsible for getting Linux up and running on the in house
  developed PPC based Warp Appliance. This included writing the kernel
  platform support, all the Warp specific drivers, updating some of
  the existing Linux drivers (e.g. i2c-ibm_iic and ndfc), and porting
  the current Pika drivers to the new platform. I worked with the
  Linux kernel community to get the changes accepted back into the
  kernel.

  Was also responsible for the busybox based user mode skeleton needed
  to get Linux to boot and worked with many of the supporting packages
  such as dhcp, mail, ssh, udev, etc.

  Part of the team that developed the new line of software for the
  telecom boards produced in house by Pika Technologies Inc. I wrote
  the Linux and Windows drivers for the analog and digital telecom
  boards.

POINTSHOT WIRELESS

  Part of the team developing the RailPoint product for wireless on
  trains. While I worked on all aspects of the system, my main focus
  was on integrating cell and satellite technologies and
  Ethernet/Internet protocols.

  Most of the work is in shell scripts in a Linux environment on a
  embedded system. Much of the work involved routing and iptables.

REBEL.COM

  Part of the team working on the core software for the NetWinder
  computer. The NetWinder was a StrongARM and later Crusoe based
  computer running Linux. The hardware was developed in house.

  I was responsible for driver development and debugging with a strong
  emphasis on the network drivers. I was also responsible for
  StrongARM specific fixes to packages (RPMs). All development work
  was open source.

MULTIPROCESSOR TOOLSMITHS INC.

  Toolsmiths was a small company that produced real-time kernels and
  tools for a broad range of processors. The development was in C and
  assembler using Unix. During my employment at Toolsmiths, I was
  responsible for all aspects of the product including: design,
  development, documentation, customer support, system integration,
  and system administration.

  Some of the individual components of the product I worked on were:
  kernels, multiprocessing, the debugger, device drivers, and BSPs.

URSEL

  Documentation of an aircraft navigation training system to military
  standards.

GANDALF

  I worked on the Starmaster digital switch. Development was on PCs using
  PL/M and the iRMX operating system.

  Before that I worked on the Mail 2000 electronic mail product for Gandalf
  Systems Group, a division of Gandalf. Development was in C using various
  Unix based platforms.
