A PROD CLASSIC

VIRUS ALERT!-----

If you receive an email entitled "Badtimes," delete it
immediately. Do not open it. Apparently this one is pretty nasty.
It will not only erase everything on your hard drive, but it will
also delete anything on disks within 20 feet of your computer. It
demagnetizes the stripes on ALL of your credit cards. It
reprograms your ATM access code, screws up the tracking on your
VCR and uses subspace field harmonics to scratch any CD's you
attempt to play.

It will re-calibrate your refrigerator's coolness settings so all
your ice cream melts and your milk curdles. It will program your
phone auto dial to call only your mother-in-law's number. This
virus will mix antifreeze into your fish tank. It will leave
dirty socks on the coffee table when you are expecting company.
Its radioactive emissions will cause your toe jam and bellybutton
fuzz (be honest, you have some) to migrate behind your ears.

It will replace your shampoo with Nair and your Nair with
Rogaine, all while dating your current boy/girlfriend behind your
back and billing their hotel rendezvous to your Visa card.

It will give you Dutch Elm Disease and Tinea. It will rewrite
your backup files, changing all your active verbs to passive
tense and incorporating undetectable misspellings which grossly
change the interpretations of key sentences.

If the "Badtimes" message is opened in a Windows 95 or 98
environment, it will leave the toilet seat up and leave your hair
dryer plugged in dangerously close to a full bathtub. It will not
only remove the forbidden tags from your mattresses and pillows,
but it will also refill your skim milk with whole milk. It will
replace all your luncheon meat with beef tongue.

It will molecularly rearrange your cologne or perfume, causing it
to smell like dill pickles. It is insidious and subtle. It is
dangerous and terrifying to behold. It is also a rather
interesting shade of mauve.

These are just a few signs of infection.

PLEASE, PLEASE, PLEASE FORWARD THIS MESSAGE TO EVERYONE YOU
KNOW!!!

Then lighten up and get a life!!!!!!

[Thanks, David]
