THE NEW ADVENTURES OF VERITY STOB
=================================

Copyright Dr. Dobb's Journal August 2002

Verity is the pseudonym of a programmer based in the UK. She can be
contacted at VerityStob@ddj.com.

Verity Stob has developed a new tool that will help you make rapid
diagnoses of sick PCs. A rolling computer gathers "cruft."  When you
spot a class interface that is no longer used by any client, but that
nobody dare delete, that's cruft. It is also the word "seperate",
added to a spellchecker's private dictionary in a moment of careless
haste, and now waiting for a suitably important document. Cruft is the
cruel corruption and confusion inevitably wrought by time upon all
petty efforts of humankind. There.

At Laboratoires Stob, we have been working on the cruft crisis for a
while. Recalling the maxim "to control a problem you must first
measure it," we have devised a suitable metric, an index of
cruftidity. Our first version, presented below, is based on a typical
PC installation running Windows 2000. But there will shortly be ports
to Linux, Mac OS X, and other Unices; we are confident these OSes are
just as prone.

We would like to acknowledge our debt, in the construction of this
instrument, to Rear-Admiral Sir Francis Beaufort. His 1805 scale of
windspeeds ("Insurance Claim Force 8. Description on land: Tile blown
off roof falls onto litigious neighbour's Toyota Shiny") is as valid
and useful today as it ever was. Enough preamble.


Cruft Force 0: Virgin
---------------------

Description: The "Connect to the Internet" shortcut is still on the
desktop, and the "How to use Windows" dialog appears at logon. Menu
animations and the various event-based sound effects -- even the
dreaded Microsoft Sound -- seem cheerful and amusing. Likewise, a
clandestine installation of the Blue Screen Of Death screensaver
(complete with simulated reboot, natch) from the Sysinternals web site
is hilarious. Compilers run crisply, and report only sensible, easily
resolved errors. There are just nine directories off C:\.

Filled with the enthusiasm that goes with having a brand new
machine, the user resolves to stick to the new-fangled
security-conscious temp directory buried deep somewhere below
Documents and Settings.


Cruft Force 1: New
------------------

Description: User has taken time to rename cutesy desktop icons
incorporating the first person singular possessive pronoun.

Twice, the mouse cursor has done that poltergeist trick where, with
the actual mouse stationary, it drifts three inches due east and then
stops. For no reason at all. Works fine afterwards though. Brrrrrrr.


Cruft Force 2: Comfortable
--------------------------

Description: User has now got around to resetting Explorer so that
"web content in folders" is suppressed. Something has made a C:\TEMP
directory in the proper place unasked, for which mercy the user
guiltily feels grateful.

A strange entry is found in the System event log: MRxSmb: The
redirector was unable to initialise security context or query context
attributes. Assiduous googling of the key phrases, up web site and
down newsgroup, establishes that, although many have wondered, nobody
knows what this means.


Cruft Force 3: Lived-in
-----------------------

Description: One time in seven when the user starts Word or other
Office 2000 app, instead of running, it pretends it is installing
itself for the first time and starts a setup program.

Directory count in C:\ up to 17, and something has pooed a Paradox
lock control file there, too.


Cruft Force 4: Middle-aged
--------------------------

Description: Amount of time from screen showing "real" Windows
background to the logon box appearing is >30 seconds. Sometimes cannot
"browse" other machines on LAN.

Get first real BSOD. Uninstall jokey screen saver, replace with SETI.

An extra disk of huge capacity has been installed. CD-ROM moves from
drive F: to drive [:


Cruft Force 5: Worn out
-----------------------

Description: Some time after bootup, always get a dialog "A service
has failed to start - BLT300." What is BLT300? Nobody knows. Although
one can manually remove/disable this service, it always reappears two
or three reboots later.

If one double-clicks a document icon, Word takes 4 minutes 30 seconds
to start up. But it still works fine if started as a program. Somebody
opines that this is due to misconfigured DDE. Or the Mars-Jupiter
cusp.


Cruft Force 6: Limping
----------------------

Description: [Delphi|Visual Basic|Java] suddenly remembers a trial
shareware component -- deleted six months ago because it was rubbish
-- and refuses to compile anything until it is reinstated.

"Web content in folders" Explorer setting switches itself back on
unbidden. "Setup" programs start crashing while unpacking their own
decompression DLLs.


Cruft Force 7: Wounded
----------------------

Description: No longer able to logon using original account as the
system freezes, so must logon as "Verity2" or similar.

There are now nine items in BOOT.INI: the original W2K starter, a
brace of two-entries-each NT4s (one Turkish), a Windows 98, and three
assorted Linuxen. Left to start up by itself, the machine chooses a
broken installation of SUSE and halts with a kernel panic.


Cruft Force 8: Decrepit
-----------------------

Description: A virus checker is installed at the insistence of
IT. This actually improves performance, apparently violating Newton's
laws.

Blue Screens Of Death are served daily. The SETI screen saver, like ET
himself, encounters difficulty calling home and despairing during an
overnight run creates 312 copies of its icon in an (impressively
expanded) system tray that fills half the screen.

Successful connections to the LAN are very rare.


Cruft Force 9: Putrefaction
---------------------------

Description: Can only see the 32-GB D:\ partition -- the one which has
all the source code on it -- at every third boot. Directory count in
C:\ up to 93, partly because some [one/thing] has put a complete (but
non-working) installation of the Eudora e-mail client in the root.

Starting Control Panel shows rolling torch animation. The applet icons
never appear.


Cruft Force 10: Expiry
----------------------

Description: Machine only runs in Safe mode at 16-color 800x600, and
even then for about a minute and a half before BSODing. Attempts to
start an app are rewarded with a dialog "No font list found."

Ordinary dodges, such as reformatting the hard disk(s) and starting
again, are ineffective. Cruft has soaked into the very fabric of the
machine, and it should be disposed of safely at a government-approved
facility. There it will be encased in cruft-resistant glass and buried
in a residential district.
