To: <0xdeadbeef@substance.abuse.blackdown.org>
Subject: A Lil' Bit O' Emo.
Date: Fri, 21 Nov 1997 12:26:15 -0400

I went to school, ya know.  I went to grammar school and once we were
taking a test and I was copying this other kid's paper, and I guess
the teacher heard my xerox machine.  She said, "Emo, am I stupid or
were you cheating?," and I said, "Ah, yes and no."  She sends me to
the principal's office and I get there and sit down and he looks at me
and says, "Emo, Emo, Emo."  I said, "I'm the one in the middle, you
drunken slob." He said, "Emo, how would you like to repeat the fifth
grade?"  I said, "I don't know if I could do it exactly, but I could
try."  He said, "I could expel you!" I said, "You'll have to catch and
eat me first, ya wierdo."  He said, "Emo, you'll have to see the
school psychologist." And I said, "But why do I have to see the school
psychologist?" So he shows me the petition.

So I went to the psychologist and he says, "Emo, what does this
inkblot look like to you?"  I said, "Well, it's kind of embarassing."
He said, "Emo, everyone sees something silly.  Don't be embarassed.
Tell me, what does this inkblot look like to you?" I said, "Well, uh,
to me, um, it looks like, uh, standard pattern number 3 in the
Rorshach series to test obsessive compulsiveness."  And he got kind of
depressed, so I said, "OK, it's a butterfly." And he cheered up. "And
what does this inkblot look like?"  I said it looks like a horrible,
ugly blob of pure evil, that sucks the souls of men into a vortex of
sin and degradation." He said, "No, uh, the inkblots over there,
that's a photo of my wife you're looking at." "Oh, was I far off?"  He
said, "No, that's the sad part." And he gave me a chocolate Easter
bunny and I ate the bunny, then I thought, hey, this isn't Easter.
"Is this a test ?" And he said, "Yes." "And what does it mean?"  He
said, "Had you eaten the ears first you would have been normal.  Had
you eaten the feet first you would have had an inferiority complex.
Had you eaten the tail first you would have had latent homosexual
tendencies and had you eaten the breasts first you would have had a
latent oedipal complex."  "Well... go on, what does it mean when you
bite out the eyes and scream 'stop staring at me?'" He said, "It means
you have a tendency towards self destruction." I said, "Well, what do
you recommend?"  He said, "Go for it."

                     -- Emo Phillips
