Future Novelists...

These are (allegedly ed.) actual analogies and metaphors found in high
school essays:

  Her face was a perfect oval, like a circle that had its two other
  sides gently compressed by a thigh master.

  His thoughts tumbled in his head, making and breaking alliances like
  underpants in a dryer without Cling Free.

  He spoke with wisdom that can only come from experience, like a guy
  who went blind because he looked at a solar eclipse without one of
  those boxes with a pinhole in it and now goes around the country
  speaking about the dangers of looking at a solar eclipse without one
  of those boxes with a pinhole in it.

  She grew on him like E. coli and he was room temperature Canadian
  beef.

  She had a deep throaty genuine laugh like that sound a dog makes
  just before he throws up.

  Her vocabulary was as bad, as, like, whatever.

  He was as tall as a six foot three inch tree.

  The revelation that his marriage of 30 years had disintegrated
  because of his wife's infidelity came as a rude shock, like a
  surcharge at a formerly surcharge free ATM.

  The little boat gently drifted across the pond exactly the way a
  bowling ball wouldn't.

  McBride fell 12 stories, hitting the pavement like a hefty bag
  filled with vegetable soup.

  From the attic came an unearthly howl. The whole scene had an eerie
  surreal quality, like when you're on vacation in another city and
  Jeopardy comes on at 7 pm instead of 7:30.

  Her hair glistened in the rain like nose hair after a sneeze.

  The hailstones leaped up off the pavement, just like maggots when
  you fry them in hot grease.

  Long separated by cruel fate, the star crossed lovers raced across a
  grassy field toward each other like two freight trains, one having
  left Cleveland at 6:36 p.m. traveling at 55 mph, the other from
  Topeka at 4:19 p.m. at a speed of 35 mph.

  They lived in a typical suburban neighborhood with picket fences
  that resemble Nancy Kerrigan's teeth.

  John and Mary had never met. They were like two hummingbirds who had
  also never met.

  She was as easy as the TV guide crossword.

  Her eyes were like limpid pools, only they had forgotten to put in
  any pH cleanser.

  She walked into my office like a centipede with 98 missing legs.

  Her voice had that tense grating quality, like a generation thermal
  paper fax machine that needed a band tightening.

  He fell for her like his heart was a mob informant and she was the
  east river.

  Even in his last years, grandpappy had a mind like a steel trap,
  only one that had been left out so long, it had rusted shut.

  Shots rang out, as shots are wont to do.

  The plan was simple, like my brother-in-law Phil. But unlike Phil,
  this plan just might work.

  Young fighter had a hungry look, the kind you get from not eating
  for a while.

  "Oh, Jason, take me!" she panted, her breasts heaving like a college
  freshman on $1-a-beer night.

  He was as lame as a duck. Not the metaphorical lame duck, either,
  but a really duck that was actually lame. Maybe from stepping on a
  land mine or something.

  The Ballerina rose gracefully en pointe and extended one slender leg
  behind her, like a dog at a fire hydrant.

  It was an American tradition, like fathers chasing kids with power
  tools.

  He was deeply in love. When she spoke, he thought he heard bells, as
  if she were a garbage truck backing up.

  It hurt the way your tongue hurts after you accidentally staple it
  to the wall.
