			 BILL GATES NEW HOUSE

Bill: "There are a few issues we need to discuss."

Contractor: "Ah, you have our basic support option. Calls are free for
            the first 90 days and $75 a call thereafter. Okay?"

Bill: "Uh, yeah... the first issue is the living room.  We think its a
      little smaller than we anticipated."

Contractor: "Yeah. Some compromises were made to have it out by the
            release date."

Bill: "We won't be able to fit all our furniture in there."

Contractor: "Well, you have two options. You can purchase a new, larger
            living room: or you can use a Stacker."

Bill: "Stacker?"

Contractor: "Yeah, it allows you to fit twice as much furniture into the
            room. By stacking it, of course, you put the entertainment
            center on the couch... the chairs on the table... etc. You
            leave an empty spot, so when you want to use some
            furniture you can unstack what you need and then put it
            back when you're done."

Bill: "Uh... I Dunno... Issue two. The second issue is the light
      fixtures The bulbs we brought with us from our old home won't
      fit. The threads run the wrong way."

Contractor: "Oh! That's easy. Those bulbs aren't plug and play. You'll
            have to upgrade to the new bulbs."

Bill: "And the electrical outlets? The holes are round, not rectangular.
      How do I fix that?"

Contractor: "Just uninstall and reinstall the electrical system."

Bill: "You're kidding!?"

Contractor: "Nope. Its the only way."

Bill: "<sigh>  Well... I have one last problem. Sometimes, when I have
      guests over, someone will flush the toilet and it won't
      stop. The water pressure drops so low that the showers don't
      work."

Contractor: "That's a resource leakage problem. One fixture is failing
            to terminate and is hogging the resource preventing access
            from other fixtures."

Bill: "And how do I fix that?"

Contractor: "Well, after each flush, you all need to exit the house,
            turn off the water at the street, turn it back on, reenter
            the house and then you can get back to work."

Bill: "That's the last straw. What kind of product are you selling me?"

Contractor: "Hey, if you don't like it, nobody made you buy it."

Bill: "And when will it be fixed?"

Contractor: "Oh, in your next house - which will be ready to release
            sometime near the end of next year. Actually it was due
            out this year, but we've had some delays..."
