		      GENERATION X OFFICE LINGO
		      =========================

Blamestorming - sitting around in a group discussing why a deadline
was missed or a project failed and who was responsible.

Beepilepsy - The brief seizure people sometimes suffer when their
beepers go off, especially in vibrator mode. Characterized by physical
spasms, goofy facial expressions, and stopping speech in mid-sentence.

Ego surfing - scanning the Net, databases, print media, and so on,
looking for references to one's own name.

Cube farm - an office filled with cubicles.

Prairie dogging - something loud happens in a cube farm, and people's
heads pop up over the walls to see what's going on.

Idea hamsters - people who always seem to have their idea generators
running .

Mouse potato - the on-line generation's answer to the couch potato.

CLM (Career-Limiting Move) - Used among microserfs to describe an
ill-advised activity. Trashing your boss while he or she is within
earshot is a serious CLM.

ohnosecond - that minuscule fraction of time in which you realize
you've just made a big mistake.

SITCOM - stands for Single Income, Two Children, Oppressive Mortgage.

Stress puppy - a person who thrives on being stressed-out and whiny .

Tourists - those who take training classes just to take a vacation
from their jobs -- "We had three serious students in the class; the
rest were tourists."

Dilberted - To be exploited and oppressed by your boss. Derived from
the experiences of Dilbert, the geek-in-hell comic strip character.
"I've been dilberted again. The old man revised the specs for the
fourth time this week."

World Wide Wait - The real meaning of WWW.

CGI Joe - A hard-core CGI script programmer with all the social skills
and charisma of a plastic action figure.

Dorito Syndrome - Feelings of emptiness and dissatisfaction triggered
by addictive substances that lack nutritional content. "I just spent
six hours surfing the Web, and now I've got a bad case of Dorito
Syndrome."

Under Mouse Arrest - Getting busted for violating an on-line service's
rule of conduct. "Sorry I couldn't get back to you. AOL put me under
mouse arrest."

Glazing - Corporate-speak for sleeping with your eyes open. A popular
pastime at conferences and early-morning meetings. "Didn't he notice
that half the room was glazing by the second session?"

Dead Tree Edition - The paper version of a publication available in
both paper and electronic forms, as in: "The dead tree edition of the
San Francisco Chronicle..."

Graybar Land - The place you go while you're staring at a computer
that's processing something very slowly (while you watch the gray bar
creep across the screen). "I was in graybar land for what seemed like
hours, thanks to that CAD rendering."

Open-Collar Workers - People who work at home or telecommute.

Squirt The Bird - To transmit a signal up to a satellite. "Crew and
talent are ready...what time do we squirt the bird?"

Brain Fart - A byproduct of a bloated mind producing information
effortlessly. A burst of useful information. "I know you're busy on
the Microsoft story, but can you give us a brain fart on the Mitnik
bust?" Variation of old hacker slang that had more negative
connotations.

Cobweb Site - A World Wide Web Site that hasn't been updated for a
long time. A dead web page.

It's a Feature - From the adage "It's not a bug, it's a feature." Used
sarcastically to describe an unpleasant experience that you wish to
gloss over.

Keyboard Plaque - The disgusting buildup of dirt and crud found on
computer keyboards. "Are there any other terminals I can use? This one
has a bad case of keyboard plaque."

Alpha Geek - The most knowledgeable, technically proficient person in
an office or work group. "Ask Larry, he's the alpha geek around here."

Adminisphere - The rarefied organizational layers beginning just above
the rack and file. Decisions that fall from the adminisphere are often
profoundly inappropriate or irrelevant to the problems they were
designed to solve.

Gray Matter - Older, experienced business people hired by young
entrepreneurial firms looking to appear more reputable and
established.

Salmon Day - The experience of spending an entire day swimming
upstream only to get screwed in the end.

Chainsaw consultant - an outside expert brought in to reduce the
employee headcount, leaving the top brass with clean hands

404 - someone who is clueless, from the World Wide Web error message
"404 Not Found", meaning the requested document couldn't be located --
"Don't bother asking him, he's 404."

Elvis year - the peak year of something's popularity -- Barney the
dinosaur's Elvis year was 1993.
