To: 0xdeadbeef@petting-zoo.net
Subject: Hollywood Squares
Date: Tue, 03 Sep 2002 11:32:38 -0700

The following are from the Original Hollywood Squares TV Show, back when
great answers were spontaneous and clever, not scripted and dull as they
are now.  (Peter Marshall was the host asking the questions, of course.)

Q: Do female frogs croak?
A: Paul Lynde: If you hold their little heads under water long enough.

Q: If you're going to make a parachute jump, you should be at least how
   high?
A: Charley Weaver: Three days of steady drinking should do it.

Q: True or false -- a pea can last as long as 5,000 years.
A: George Gobel: Boy it sure seems that way sometimes.

Q: You've been having trouble going to sleep. Are you probably a man or a
   woman?
A: Don Knotts: That's what's been keeping me awake.

Q: According to Cosmo, if you meet a stranger at a party and you think
   he's really attractive, is it all right to come out directly and ask
   him if he's married?
A: Rose Marie: No, wait until morning.

Q: Which of your five senses tends to diminish as you get older?
A: Charley Weaver: My sense of decency.

Q: In Hawaiian, does it take more than three words to say "I love you"?
A: Vincent Price: No, you can say it with a pineapple and a twenty.

Q: As you grow older, do you tend to gesture more or less with your hands
   while you are talking?
A: Rose Marie: You ask me one more growing older question, Peter, and
   I'll give you a gesture you'll never forget!

Q: Paul, why do Hell's Angels wear leather?
A: Paul Lynde: Because chiffon wrinkles too easily.

Q: Can boys join the Camp Fire Girls?
A: Marty Allen: Only after lights out.

Q: When you pat a dog on its head he will usually wag his tail.  What
   will a goose do?
A: Paul Lynde: Make him bark?

Q: According to Ann Landers, is there anything wrong with getting into
   the habit of kissing a lot of people?
A: Charley Weaver: It got me out of the army!

Q: Charley, what do you call a pig that weighs more than 150 pounds?
A: Charley Weaver: A divorcee.

Q: Back in the old days, when Great Grandpa put horseradish on his head,
   what was he trying to do?
A: George Gobel: Get it in his mouth.

Q: When a couple have a baby, who is responsible for its sex?
A: Charley Weaver: I'll lend him the car.  The rest is up to him.

Q: Jackie Gleason recently revealed that he firmly believes in them and
   has actually seen them on at least two occasions.  What are they?
A: Charley Weaver: His feet.
