From: Gunner
Newsgroups: rec.crafts.metalworking,misc.survivalism
Subject: Humor- Michigans UP Visitors Notice
Date: Mon, 30 Jul 2001 13:37:14 +0000

 
 ATTENTION UPPER PENINSULA VISITORS


           This list of rules will be handed to each person as they
enter 
GODS  COUNTRY, AKA THE UPPER PENINSULA OF MICHIGAN 
       
      1. That slope-shouldered farm boy did more work before breakfast 
          than you'll do all week at the gym. He doesn't need your
respect, but he sure    as hell deserves it. 

      2. It's called a 'gravel road,' No matter how slow you drive,
you're    going to get dust on your BMW. I have a four-wheel drive
because I need   it.  Drive it or get it out of the way. 

      3. We all started hunting and fishing when we were nine years old.
          Yeah, we saw Bambi and we have eaten Bambi.  So get over it.

      4. Any references to "corn fed" when talking about our women will 
          get your butt kicked...by our women. 

      5. Go ahead and bring your $600 Orvis Fly Rod. Don't cry to us if
a         flathead breaks it off at the handle. We have a name for that 
little 13-inch    trout you fish for...bait. 

      6. Pull your pants up. You look like an idiot. 
       
      7. If that cell phone rings while a bunch of mallards are making 
          their final approach, we will shoot it. You might hope you
don't have it up to   your ear at the time. 

      8. That's right. Whiskey is only two bucks. We can buy a fifth for
          what you paid in the airport. 

      9. The Lions and the Tigers are as important here as the Lakers
and   the Knicks...and a dang sight more fun to watch. 

      10. No, there's no "Vegetarian Special" on the menu. Order steak.
       
           Order it rare. Or, you can order the Chef's Salad and pick
off the two pounds   of ham and turkey. Yeah, we have sweet tea. It
comes in a glass with two      packets of sugar and a long spoon. 

      11. You bring Coke into my house, it better be brown, wet, and 
            served over ice. 

      12. So you have a sixty-thousand dollar car. We're real impressed.
           We have quarter of a million dollar combine that we drive two
weeks a year. 

      13. Let's get this straight. We have one stoplight in town. We
stop when   it's red. We may even stop when it's yellow. 

      14. Our women hunt, fish, and drive trucks--because they want to. 
           So, you're a feminist. Isn't that cute? 

      15. Yeah, we eat walleye--catfish, too--and turtle. You really
want  Sushi and caviar? It's available at the bait shop. 

      16. They are pigs. That's what they smell like. Get over it. Don't
           like It? Interstate 75 goes two ways U.S.-2 goes the other
two. Pick one. 

      17. The "Opener" refers to the first day of  Deer season. It's a 
            religious holiday held the 15th of November. You can get 
            breakfast at the church. 

      18. So every person in every pickup waves. It's called being
friendly. Try to understand the concept. 

      19. Yeah, we have golf courses. Don't hit in the water hazards. It
             spooks   the fish. 

      20. Yes, we shoot the pretty birds. They're partridge. They taste 
            delicious! 

                              Now, enjoy your visit and then go home. 


The government consists of a gang of men exactly like you and me. They
have, taking one with another, no special talent for the business of
government; they have only a talent for getting and holding office. Their
principal device to that end is to search out groups who pant and pine
for something they can't get and to promise to give it to them. Nine times
out of ten that promise is worth nothing. The tenth time is made good by
looting A to satisfy B. In other words, government is a broker in pillage,
and every election is sort of an advance auction sale of stolen goods.
           - H. L. Mencken

