Nortel Networks to Cut Workforce 120%
-------------------------------------

Nortel Networks will reduce its workforce by an unprecedented 120
percent by the end of 2001, believed to be the first time a major
corporation has laid off more employees than it actually has. Nortel
stock soared more than 12 points on the news.

The reduction decision, announced Wednesday, came after a year-long
internal review of cost-cutting procedures, said Nortel Networks
Chairman and CEO John Roth. The initial report concluded the company
would save $1.2 billion by eliminating 20 percent of its 88,000
employees.

From there, said Roth, "it didn't take a genius to figure out that if we
cut 40 percent of our workforce, we'd save $2.4 billion, and if we
cut 100 percent of our workforce, we'd save $6 billion. But then we
thought, why stop there? Let's cut another 20 percent and save $7
billion.  "We believe in increasing shareholder value, and we believe
that by decreasing expenditures, we enhance our competitive cost
position and our bottom line," he added.

Nortel Networks plans to achieve the 100 percent internal reduction
through layoffs, attrition and early retirement packages. To achieve the
20 percent in external reductions, the company plans to involuntarily
downsize 18,000 non-Nortel employees who presently work for other
companies.

"We pretty much picked them out of a hat," said Roth.

Among firms Nortel has picked as "External Reduction Targets," or ERTs,
are Quaker Oats, AMR Corporation, parent of American Airlines, Lockheed,
Boeing, and Charles Schwab & Co. Nortel's plan presents a "win-win" for
the company and ERTs, said Roth, as any savings by ERTs could be passed
on to Nortel, while the ERTs themselves would benefit by the increase in
stock price that usually accompanies personnel cutback announcements.

"We're also hoping that since, over the years, we've been really helpful
to a lot of companies, they'll do this for us kind of as a   favor,"
said Roth. Legally, pink slips sent out by Nortel would have no standing
at ERTs unless those companies agreed. While executives at ERTs declined
to comment, employees at those companies said they were not inclined to
cooperate.

"This is ridiculous. I don't work for Nortel. They can't fire me," said
Kaili Blackburn, a flight attendant with American Airlines. "Reactions
like that", replied Roth, "are not very sporting."

Inspiration for Nortel's plan came from previous cutback initiatives,
said company officials. In January of 2001, for instance, the company
announced it would trim 10,000 jobs over the next year. However, just
two months later, Nortel said it had already reached its quota. "We were
quite surprised at the number of employees willing to leave Nortel in
such a hurry, and we decided to build on that," Roth said.  Analysts
credited Roth's short-term vision, noting that the announcement had the
desired effect of immediately increasing Nortel's share value. However,
the long-term ramifications could be detrimental, said Bear Stearns
analyst Beldon McInty. "It's a little early to tell, but by eliminating
all its employees, Nortel may jeopardize its market position and could,
at least theoretically, cease to exist," said McInty.  Roth, however,
urged patience: "To my knowledge, this hasn't been done before, so let's
just wait and see what happens."
