			    OTTAWA WINTER

Dear Diary,

August 12
  Moved to our new home in Ottawa; it is so beautiful here. The
  landscape is so majestic. Can hardly wait to see snow covering!

October 3
  Ottawa is the most beautiful place on earth. The leaves are turning
  colors, in shades of red, yellow and orange. Went for a ride through
  beautiful Gatineau Park and saw some deer. They are so
  graceful. Certainly they are the most wonderful animals on
  earth. This place is paradise. I love it here!

November 13
  Deer season will start soon. I can't imagine anyone wanting to kill
  such a gorgeous creature. Hope it will snow soon. I love it here!

December 2
  It snowed last night. Woke to find everything blanketed with white.
  It looks like a postcard. We went outside and cleaned the snow off
  the steps and shoveled the driveway. We had a snowball fight and
  when the snow plow went by, we had to shovel the driveway
  again. What a beautiful place. I love Ottawa!

December 12
  More snow last night. I love it. The snow plow did his trick again
  to the driveway. I love it here.

December 19
  More snow last night. Couldn't get out of the driveway to get to
  work. I am exhausted from shoveling. Stupid snow plow!

December 22
  More of the white stuff fell last night. I've got blisters on my
  hands from shoveling. I think the snow plow hides around the curve
  and waits until I'm done shoveling the driveway. Asshole!

December 25
  Merry fucking Christmas. More friggin' snow. If I ever get my hands
  on that son-of-a-bitch who drives the snow plow, I swear I'll kill
  the bastard.  Don't know why they don't use more salt on the roads
  to melt the fucking ice.

December 27
  More dandruff last night. Been inside for three days except for
  shoveling out the driveway after that snow plow goes through every
  time. Can't go anywhere, car's stuck in the mountain of white
  crap. The weather man says to expect another 10" of snow again
  tonight.

December 28
  The fucking weatherman was wrong! We got 24" of that white shit this
  time.  At this rate, it won't melt before the summer. The snow plow
  got stuck up in the road and that bastard comes to my door and asked
  to borrow my shovel.  After I told him I had broken six shovels
  already shoveling all that crap he pushed into the driveway, I broke
  my last one over his fucking head!

January 4
  Finally got out of the house today. Went to the store to get food
  and on the way back a damned deer ran in front of the car and I hit
  it. Did about $3,000 damage to the car. Those fucking beasts should
  be killed!  Wish the hunters had killed them all last November.

May 3
  Took the car to the garage in town. Would you believe the thing is
  rusting out from that fucking salt they put all over the roads?!

May 10
  Moved to Phoenix. I can't imagine why anyone in their right mind
  would ever live in Ottawa.


Sean's Footnote: I live in Ottawa. I wonder what that says about me...
