    CHARACTERIZING PEOPLE AS NON-LINEAR, FIRST-ORDER COMPONENTS IN
			 SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT

		   Alistair Cockburn (arc@acm.org)
			Humans and Technology
      Humans and Technology Technical Report, TR 99.05, Oct.1999
	      7691 Dell Rd, Salt Lake City, UT 84121 USA
			     arc@acm.org

(This paper is being submitted for external publication, and is being
	       distributed for peer review and comment)

ABSTRACT

We process designers and methodologists have been designing complex
systems without studying the operating characterizing of the active
components of our systems, which are known to be highly non-linear and
variable (people). This paper outlines theories and projects I
reviewed on the way to making this stupendously obvious but
significant discovery, and the characteristics of people I find most
affect methodology design and broad statements about process.  I am
finding these characteristics of people to be better predictors of
project behavior and methodology success than other methodological
factors.

INTRODUCTION

This is a report from experience, from reviewing roughly three dozen
projects and methodologies over 20 years.

The short of the story is that we have been designing complex systems
whose active components are variable and highly non-linear components
called people, without characterizing these components or their effect
on the system being designed. Upon reflection, this seems absurd, but
remarkably few people in our field have devoted serious energy to
understanding how these things called people affect software
development.

The notable exceptions are Gerald Weinberg [Wei] and Tom DeMarco [Dm],
whose books are being reissued in anniversary(!) editions. Their work
is so well regarded in the field that we should expect to find major
research efforts extending their work. By and large, the software
development community has ignored the characteristics of people as a
major topic of study, even though an increasing number of consultants
are treating humans as the dominant consideration in software
development [B99], [Hi]. This is a significant oversight, akin to
ignoring metal in the walls of a building and wondering radio
experiments are not giving the expected results.

Like most people, I referred to people on projects only superficially,
until after several years as a research and practicing methodologist,
I began wondering why my methodological recommendations were not
matching my experiences on software projects. The problem wasn't what
my various teams were doing (the projects enjoyed a high success
rate). The problem was that what I wrote didn't match what we did.

Over the last five years, I have found - and still find - it very
difficult to know "what it is I am looking at". It slowly became
apparent that one thing not in my methodological equation, or, in
fact, in anyone else's, as far as I can see, is the effect of "people"
on methodologies.

Once I started accounting for this quantity, I found my methodological
predictions and results started matching my experiences. I now
consider the characteristics of people as the dominant, first-order
project driver.

How does differ from what DeMarco and Lister wrote in Peopleware,
DeMarco and Lister announced that people are important and gave some
specific pointers. I am interested in how people's individual and
group characteristics affect the design of software development
practices (a.k.a. methodologies), for different groups working on
different sorts of assignments.

Weinberg's chapter on "Teaming" in The Psychology of Computer
Programming, particularly on 'task' versus 'maintenance' management,
comes closest to what I am after: a characterization, and
recommendations derived from the characterization. His
characterizations and recommendations, based upon project interviews
in the 1960's, are still accurate and significant 30 years later. That
validates the stability and importance of these sorts of issues. It is
about time we studied these issues as a core to the field of Software
Engineering and stopped rediscovering their importance every 30 years.

This paper outlines the work I reviewed that made it clear to me that
'people' really are a first-order, and not incidental, project success
driver, the characteristics I currently use as predictors, and their
success as predictors. This paper is written in the first person
rather than in formal, academic style, because it relates a quest for
the obvious but unstated, and is best told in story form.

WHAT WASN'T WORKING

In the formal development of communications software, in 1987, I was
given the motivation, "The problem with software development is that
there is too much ambiguity in the problem statement and in the design
description.  Things will go better if we get people to work with
mathematical formalisms." After some work in this area, I discovered:

  Problem 1. The people on the projects were not interested in
             learning our system.

  Problem 2. They were successfully able to ignore us, and were still
             delivering software, anyway.

I shifted out of formal development, hearing my formal development
colleagues saying, "The problem lies in the training.  Things will go
better if we start training students in the necessary mathematics
earlier, i.e., secondary school." Based on what I have learned about
people, I expect this will be a frustrated desire. It is not that I
doubt certain advantages of formal development, but I do doubt our
ability to coax 10**6 people to master it. The question should become,
"Under what circumstances, and with what assignment, should a formal
specialist be called in?"

I shifted over to tool development, working in an ethnocentric fashion
as far as possible. I watched the designers of communications
protocols, and discussed with them what might be their problems. My
colleagues and I decided that, "The problem is that the people are
still drawing at the whiteboard. Things will go better if we give them
special tools so that they can draw directly into the computer and
give them early execution of their designs."

We spent several years developing an inference engine that would
convert time-flow, interaction diagrams into a software architecture
and rule system [Ci]. Many groups were and are working on a similar
agenda, e.g., Harel's executable finite state machines [Ha].

We completed the prototype after several years and showed it to our
would-be user group, and were shattered to hear them say, "No, thanks,
we actually like drawing on the whiteboards. We don't want to take the
time to put the drawings into the computer. Um, may we use the drawing
editor portion of your tool suite?" Listening to other tools vendors,
we heard the same experiences, usually ending up with, "they use just
the drawing editor portion."  In other words,

  Problem 1. The people on the projects were not interested in
             learning our system.

  Problem 2. They were successfully able to ignore us, and were still
             delivering software, anyway.

Troubled by this, I shifted into software development methodologies,
designing the OO methodology for the IBM Consulting Group
(1992-94). Not wanting to make the same mistake a third time, I
interviewed over a dozen object-technology projects around the world,
and wrote down what they said. Studying those notes, I concluded
several things.

  * The successful teams used incremental development [Co95]

  * Any design technique more complicated than "CRC Cards" [B87]
    seemed too complex to be used [Co94].

  * The design teams had the privilege of ignoring any tool or
    technique they didn't like. All they had to say to their boss was,
    "It slows me down - I won't make the schedule if I use it," and
    their boss would let them ignore it.  At the time I did not think
    this was significant to write down, but I did note it as a
    methodology "design constraint".

I designed the most palatable, low-ceremony methodology I thought
possible, and went to use it on a project. Our experiences are
documented as Project Winifred in [Co98]. The core design technique I
recommended, taught, and mentored on that project was based on CRC
cards.

A few months later I took off my consultant's hat, put on my
ethnographer's, and studied the ways in which the team was actually
behaving.  What I saw staggered me:

  * The moment-to-moment process the team followed was so intricate
    that I couldn't possibly write it all down, and if I could, no one
    else could possibly follow it [Co98p]. It matched my process only
    in the most superficial way.

  * Not a single person out of the two-dozen OO designers I had
    mentored was using CRC cards.

In other words, although I had used what I thought was an ethnographic
basis for designing the methodology,


  Problem 1. The people on the projects were not interested in
             learning our system.

  Problem 2. They were successfully able to ignore us, and were still
             delivering software, anyway.

This process repeated itself a few more times, until I became quite
upset at my inability to "see what really is happening". The best I
could say was that there was some important thing in the project that
we hadn't named.  To address this, I recently teamed with an
ethnographer, just to have help naming what is happening [Ho]. A
consultant plus an ethnographer is a good pairing, but we have barely
started. The trouble is, we can't say what we are seeing until we have
names for what we are seeing. Evidently, our current vocabulary is
inadequate.

I have now been on, debriefed, or read detailed accounts in the
literature, of approximately three dozen projects (selected aspects of
which are summarized in Table 1).

Table 1. Projects and methodologies reviewed. This table, which must
necessarily be abbreviated, shows projects with year, nickname, and a note about
each. Some of the projects are further documented, as the references show.

1980. "CT5". Success. 26 people, 3 years (1 year late), company
      critical. Learned by apprenticeship, well-defined macro process,
      no micro-process.
1986. "Cleanroom" projects [Mi]. Success. IBM Federal Sector,
      large-team projects. Repeated success with heavy,
      high-discipline methodology.
1986. "Sherr's projects" [Br] Success. Process: "make it work, but
      don't work overtime" forced creative solutions, no defined
      process.
1980. "Broooklyn Union Gas" [Co98]. Success. New OO technology, 150
      people, mission critical project.
1992. "Tracy" [Co98]. Failure. Small team blindly followed the
      methodology that said,"model the world, then code it up."  Only
      had access to occasional users and untrained staff.
1992. "BlackKnight". Success. Small team happy with post-it notes
      connected by yarn.
1992. "Manfred" [Co98]. Failure. Small team, low discipline,
      lightweight. "We'll engineer it later" failure of continual
      prototyping.
1992. "CSPITF". Success. Small team managed iterations
      carefully. Lightweight process, sitting close together.Good
      synergy between technical lead and project manager. Lead stayed
      on to restructure code internals for next team.
1992. "OTI" [Co98].. Success. Small teams. "Give good people good
      tools, and leave them alone". Repeated success with light,
      people-centric methodology.
1993. "Reginald" [Co98].. Failure. 2-person team grew to 3 teams in
      two counties. One team blindly followed paper-heavy methodology,
      never produced code before project cancelled.
1993. "Ingrid" [Co98].. Success. 26-people, 2-years.  Incremental
      macro process, no micro-process. First increment failed.
      Replaced all programmers, evolved lightweight,
      communication-centric methodology over time.
1993. "Synon in NZ". Success. Project leader claimed success was due
      to "4 people in one room, use of fast iterative tool", would not
      take on project in which people could not talk to each other
      easily.
1994. "Udall" [Co98]. Success. Failed initially with a large
      team. Success due to "starting over, extracting a good small
      team from fumbling large team."
1995. "Winifred" [Co98]. Success. 45 people, 20 months. Success dues
      to "increments, good communications, a few good people ". Macro
      process, no micro process. Successful medium-sized,
      communication-centric metodology
1996. "Reel". Failure. 150-people told to update every document with
      every design change. Project canceled. Project participant
      summarized: "Diligent use of bad practices is still bad."
1997. "Caliper". Failure. 90-people, company critical. Still missing
      first major delivery after 6 years. High expectations, new
      technology, no increments, inadequately skilled staff in all
      roles.
1997. "NorgesBank". Interviews with 6 project teams.  Common phrase in
      all interviews: "success when good communications in team and
      with users."
1998. "C3" [C3]. Success. 8 people replaced 26 after initial
      failure. Extreme Programming [EP]. Successful small-team,
      high-discipline, communication-centric methodology.
1998. "NB Banking". Success. 3 people, 2-month project grew suddenly
      to 10 people, 14-months. Disliked video link. Macro but no micro
      process. Success due to "increments, adequate people &
      communication".
1998. "M.A.D." [Ch]. Success. Small team, studying end user context,
      used prototypes. Successful use of communication-centric,
      prototyping methodology.
1998. "Insman". Success. 6 people using "Crystal(Clear)"
      [Co00]. Success due to "focusing on close communication, group
      morale, 3-month increments with team learning.".
1999. "Cinch". Ongoing. 40 people sitting close, but still requiring
      formal deliverables. Recognize cost of writing, but unable to
      shift to personal mode (personalities, habit, or culture?).
1999. "Hill AFB TSP1" [Web]. Success. 7 people, CMM level 5 group
      using PSP/TSP. Small team success with high-discipline,
      process-centric methodology.

What I find striking about these projects is that they show:

  * Almost any methodology can be made to work on some project.

  * Any methodology can manage to fail on some project.

  * Heavy processes can be successful.

  * Light processes are more often successful, and more importantly,
    the people on those projects credit the success to the lightness
    of the methodology.

I did not find any theory to account for the high success rate of
lightweight, low-ceremony methodologies, the low success of
very-high-ceremony methodologies, with occasional exceptions as in
Cleanroom and PSP/TSP. Obviously, poor management is a
non-methodological factor of greatest significance, but even
normalizing for that does not give meaningful predictions.

I finally concluded that there is something there, in front of us all
the time, which we are not seeing: people. People's characteristics
are a first-order success driver, not a second-order one. In fact, I
have reversed the order, and now consider process factors to be
second-order issues.

Most of my experiences can be accounted for from just a few
characteristics of people. Applying these on recent projects, I have
had much greater success at predicting results and making successful
recommendations. I believe the time has come to, formally and
officially, put a research emphasis on "what are the characteristics
of people that affect software development, and what are their
implications on methodology design?"

FOUR CHARACTERISTICS

People, as active devices, have success modes and failure modes. The
following are the main ones that I have named and used to date:

  1. People are communicating beings, doing best face-to-face, in
     person, with real-time question and answer.

  2. People have trouble acting consistently over time.

  3. People are highly variable, varying from day to day and place to
     place.

  4. People generally want to be good citizens, are good at looking
     around, taking initiative, and doing "whatever is needed" to get
     the project to work.

There are other characteristics that I won't expand here:

  * People need both think time and communicating opportunities (see
    [Co98], [Cs], [Dm]).

  * People work well from examples (a topic for more study, however,
    see [J-L]).

  * People prefer to fail conservatively than to risk succeeding
    differently [Pi]; prefer to invent than to research, can only keep
    a small amount in their heads, and do make mistakes, and find it
    hard to change their habits.

  * Individual personalities easily dominate a project.

  * A person's personality profile strongly affects their ability to
    perform specific assignments.

PEOPLE ARE COMMUNICATING BEINGS

The most significant single factor is "communication". Figure 1 is the
informal curve I now use to inform my methodological
considerations. The figure shows communication effectiveness dropping
as modalities and timing are removed. There is some research around
this topic, see [Pl] and [Si], and it also matches the project
experiences Weinberg documented 30 years ago [Wei].

The most effective communication is person-to-person, face-to-face, as
with two people at the whiteboard. As we remove the characteristics of
two people at the whiteboard, we see a drop in communication
effectiveness. The characteristics that get lost are:

  * Physical proximity. I am at a loss to explain why, but being
    physically close to the other person affects the
    communication. Whether it is three-dimensionality, timing, smell,
    or small visual cues, physical proximity matters.

  * Multiple modalities. People communicate through gestures as well
    as words, often making a point by gesturing, raising an eyebrow or
    pointing while speaking.

  * Vocal inflection and timing. By speeding up, slowing down,
    pausing, or changing tones, the speaker emphasizes the importance
    of a sentence, or perhaps its surprise value.

  * Real-time question-and-answer. Questions reveal the ambiguity in
    the speaker's explanation, or the way in which the explanation
    misses the listener's background. The timing of the questions sets
    up a pattern of communication between the parties.

			   (image missing)

		   Figure 1. Modes of communication

What happens when we remove those characteristics, one by one?

  * Remove only physical proximity. Put people at opposite ends of a
    video link. In principle, the link has the same characteristics as
    physical presence. However, when we try it, the effect is not the
    same. Teammates working in Oslo and Lillehammer found that they
    only made design progress when they took the train trip to sit
    together. Even walking from the train station together was a more
    effective design environment than talking over a video link.

  * Remove visual gestures with visual timing, but keep vocal
    inflection and timing (e.g., use a telephone). Most people speak
    while drawing. While drawing the line that connects two boxes, the
    person will say what is important to note. This visual / auditory
    timing information anchors information content. Putting two people
    over the phone eliminates this timing, along with facial
    expressions, gestures, and pointing.

  * Next, remove vocal timing and inflection, but keep the ability to
    ask questions (email). Without vocal timing, we can't pause for
    effect, check for interruptions, speed up or slow down to make a
    point. Without vocal inflection, we can't raise our tone or volume
    to indicate the surprise, boredom, or obviousness of the
    transmitted idea.

  * Next, remove the ability to ask questions (but possibly reinstate
    one of the above factors). Without the questions, the presenter
    must guess what the receiver knows, doesn't know, would like to
    ask, and what an appropriate answer to the guessed question might
    be - without any feedback. In this set of communication media, we
    can still allow visual cues (videotape), or voice (audiotape).

  * Finally, remove visual, vocals, timing, and questions, and we
    get... paper documentation. In the above model, paper
    documentation comes out as the least effective communication
    medium available. The writer must guess at the audience, with no
    feedback, and does not get to use timing or emphatic signals,
    vocal or gestural inflections.

If this model is useful, it should inform us as to how better to
work. Indeed it does, and we find the busiest projects making use of
those suggestions.

"Put all the people into one room." "Don't give me more than 4 people,
that's all I can get into one room and talking together." These are
standard recommendations of successful project leaders. They plan on
using the highest communication mode, people face-to-face.

"Make sure there are whiteboards and coffee corners all over the
building." Hewlett-Packard and IBM were early to observe the
effectiveness of informal meeting places, and by now it has become a
standard idiom in our industry that an effective design environment
actively encourage and permit ad hoc meetings of small
groups. Weinberg documented specific instances where casual
conversations had significant effect on the overall group output
[Wei]. Much progress comes when people "just talk together.".

Three recent methodologies contain, as a core element, putting people
into the same room or very close together (Adaptive Software
Engineering [Hi], Extreme Programming [B99], [EP], Crystal(Clear)
[Co00]).

The above model also allows us to make a recommendation for archival
documentation:

  Have the designer give a short (5-20 minute) description of the
  design to one or two colleagues who are not familiar with the
  work. They will act as ombudsmen for the viewers of the
  videotape. Let the people simply have a discussion of the design,
  with the colleagues asking questions as they need. Video the
  discussion. At the end, produce drawings of the examples used in the
  discussion, or the design drawings used, to act as mnemonic anchors
  of the discussion.

I was pleased to hear from Lizette Velasquez of Lucent Technologies
that not only had she profitably already used that technique, but that
I had forgotten to mention something important. She said it is also
important to mark and index places where "something interesting
happened". While much of the discussion proceeds at a relatively slow
pace, occasionally a question triggers a flurry of significant
discussion, and the viewers will want to refer back to those sections.

These days, it is possible to put the talk online with hyperlinked
media.

For those who still think a book is best, consider the excellent but
difficult book Design Patterns. Imagine that instead of trying to
extract the meaning of the "Decorator" pattern from the paper, you
could click on the page and see one of the authors explaining the
pattern in a video clip. They would, of course, rely on tonal
inflections, gestures, and timing to get the idea across.

The lesson of this human characteristic is that we should try to move
team communications up the curve as far as possible, given the
situation at hand.

PEOPLE TEND TO INCONSISTENCY

We have to be careful in talking about human failure modes. "If you
give a dog a bad name, you might as well shoot him," is an old English
saying. Indeed, as two examples below show, simply changing the
management style and local culture can change the apparent behavior
dramatically. And yet, there is a thread running through my project
experiences, how difficult it is to expect consistency of action. As
Jim Highsmith writes [Hi]:

  "...there are people, not cogs, inside the box. People can do
  similar things repeatedly, but never the same thing. With a
  step-by-step process we expect the same set of outputs from
  identical inputs, but people's reaction to inputs may vary
  considerably from day-to-day based on a wide variety of conditions,
  many of them unrelated to the task at hand."

People are content to be lax about their behavior. One of the two most
difficult requests I can think to make of person is to do something
carefully and consistently, day in and day out (the other is to ask
them to change their habits). Here is an extract from a recent
conversation to illustrate.

  "How can I manage the flood of paper that comes into my office?"
  asked one person. Another replied, "It's easy. Keep your desk
  entirely clean, with four baskets on one side and a set of folders
  in the top drawer...." The speaker never got further. "Keep the desk
  entirely clean!?"  cried the listeners in unison. "I can't do that!"

Note that the clear desk suggestion asks them both to change their
habits and apply an action consistently.

If people could just act consistently, they could keep their desks
clean, avoid cavities, lose weight, give up smoking, play a musical
instrument, and possibly even produce software on a regular and timely
basis.

As Karl Wiegert quipped, "We are not short on practices, we are short
on practice." David Gries gives detailed instructions for deriving
correct programs in "The Science of Programming" [Gr]. CRC cards are a
good design exploration medium [B87]. Extreme Programming [EP], with
its pair programming and automated regression unit tests [Je], uses
known and effective practices. The practices of the Cleanroom
methodology are well documented [Mi].  Watts Humphrey gives detailed
instructions on how programmers can become more effective in the
Personal Software Process [Hu]. Consistent application of almost any
of the above ideas would improve any of the projects I have visited.

The trouble is the word "consistent". PSP and Extreme Programming lose
their meaning when applied sporadically. A half-derived code fragment
is not an error-free code fragment. Just as the clear-desk technique,
they must be applied completely, consistently, daily.

Lack of consistency is a common failure mode of humans.  Methodologies
that require consistency of action, I call "high-discipline"
methodologies. The project interviews indicate high-discipline
methodologies as being fragile, although they have been brought to
work in some projects. The following words from a CMM level 5
organization, trained in PSP, are instructive [Web]:

  During the summer of 1996, TIS introduced the PSP to a small group
  of software engineers. Although the training was generally well
  received, use of the PSP in TIS started to decline as soon as the
  classes were completed. Soon, none of the engineers who had been
  instructed in PSP techniques was using them on the job. When asked
  why, the reason was almost unanimous: "PSP is extremely rigorous,
  and if no one is asking for my data, it's easier to do it the old
  way."

To stay in place, a high-discipline methodology must contain some form
of support for the people to act consistently. Cleanroom has a "no
compilation" rule backed by management practices. Extreme Programming
calls for a coach to keep the practices in use. PSP has no such
explicit support, and so it is not surprising that in this CMM level 5
group the PSP fell into disuse for lack of support structures. The
adjunct TSP is supposed to provide those factors [Web].

All of the above comments notwithstanding, there really are people who
stay highly disciplined and consistent on a daily basis (illustrating
the variability across people). Sometimes simply changing the manager
of a group of people can change the consistency of their actions. I
thank Trygve Reenskaug for the following anecdote, with which he
illustrated that management style and personal chemistry matter a lot:

  There was a small-goods and buttons shop nearby that was always in a
  terrible shape. The place was a mess, and the girls were either
  doing their nails or on the phone, and didn't have much time for the
  customers. That business closed, and another small-goods and buttons
  shop opened in its place. This place was wonderful! It was clean,
  tidy, and the girls were attentive to their customers. The only
  thing was ... it was the same two girls!

Indeed, it is well known that personal management style has an
enormous effect. The Chrysler Comprehensive Compensation project went
through this around 1997 [C3]. Initially the team placed value on
"thinking ahead", "subtle but extensible designs" and "my code is
private". The team, together but largely under the impetus of Kent
Beck, rebuilt itself with the core values "make it simple and clear,
we can add that subtlety later", "all code is public, any pair of
people sitting together may change anything." The same people adopted
different core values and went from disarray, non-communication and
non-delivery to consistent application of a highly disciplined,
different set of practices, and regular delivery over a three-year
period.

GOOD CITIZENSHIP AND GOOD AT LOOKING AROUND

Three human success modes counter the consistency problem:

  * people are generally interested in being "good citizens",
  * people take initiative,
  * people are good at looking around.

When I interview a project, I always ask what caused them to succeed
in the end. The single most common answer I receive is, "A few good
people stepped in at key moments and did whatever was needed to get
the job done." A typical such comment was carefully written up in
NASA's "Deorbit flight software lessons learned" [NASA]:

  "Perhaps most important for the long term, during the course of the
  project, a capable core team for rapid development of GN&C systems
  evolved. This included finding talented team members; training in
  and gaining experience with the tools, processes and methodology,
  and integrating into a cohesive team.

  After working together in the RDL for a year, team members have
  acquired expertise in methods, tools and domain. A helpful and
  cooperative atmosphere has encouraged and enabled cross training. A
  willingness on the part of team members to address any and all
  project issues has proven invaluable on many occasion...

  ...this team can be a long term asset to the division and to the
  agency."

What causes people to do that? One plausible answer is, "good
citizenship".

Perhaps we can increase the rate of project success simply by
increasing the "sense of community and good citizenship" on the
team. I actually don't propose that as a top recommendation, because I
find that the sense of good citizenship is already generally high, and
improper management is already taking too much advantage of it (see,
for example, Death March [Yo]).

However, the idea does reveal a rarely mentioned element of
methodology design: "Community and citizenship" should be among a
project's central activities and measures, at least on a par with
"code review and testing". I am happy to say that several of the
projects I have visited have this as an explicit activity. They use it
to keep the person-to-person communication channels in good order
(needless to say, these projects also maximize face-to-face
communication). However, I have yet to see it included in a written
methodology or process.

The second success mode is that people take initiative. It works in
concert with good citizenship and being good at looking around, to
produce the common success factor, "a few good people stepped in at
key moments."

"Good at looking around" is a vague phrase with strong effects.
People sorting papers often create small, unsorted stacks, using the
shellsort technique. The surprising part is that quite often they
never sort the smaller stacks. Close is good enough, because they know
they can skim through a pile on demand, and often will remember
"approximately" where a given item is (future studies should address
mnemonic anchoring techniques).

We try to create good, accurate and up-to-date design
documentation. Since consistency of action is a common failure mode,
we can safely predict that the documentation will not be up to
date. In fact, I have not yet interviewed a successful project that
had accurate documentation, unless either the code or the
documentation was generated automatically. I did, however see a
project fail because the developers were told to update all design
documentation every time they made a change. Cost of development was
just too high, and progress too slow, and the project was soon
cancelled.

I ask maintenance people how they manage to make program updates, in
the face of out-of-date documentation. Their answer is that they "just
look around", they don't trust the documentation in any case - they
just read the code.

I have come to rely on this "good at looking around" success mode of
humans on projects and in methodology design.

Traceability documents are very expensive to create and keep correct,
particularly given the weakness of humans with regard to consistency,
I therefore recommend getting the traceability and design
documentation "good enough" so that the investigating person can learn
approximately where to look.  Their eyes and intelligence will take
care of the rest. Even this level of traceability and documentation is
unlikely to be maintained on most projects (and it somehow doesn't
matter so much, because people work much more from talking to
colleagues who know than from reading the documents).

Trygve Reenskaug gave another example. He proposed a computer-aided
design system to an engineer designing offshore oil platforms.  Trygve
proposed that the system could add value by tracking the update
activity being performed on any part of the platform. The engineer
replied, "Just have it store the phone numbers of the people working
on each part. I'll call them and find out."

The official, methodological term I use is "low precision" [Co98]. I
find that most projects run just fine on (accurate) low-precision
descriptions: low-precision project plans are easier to read, adjust,
and negotiate. Low-precision architecture diagrams are easier to
remember, low precision requirements tables are easier to prioritize
and evaluate early in a project, low-precision design documentation is
better at giving the reader "the idea" of the design - and then
letting them look around.

Low precision artifacts use the strengths of people to lower
development costs. They draw on "good at looking around" and
face-to-face communication, while forgiving inconsistency of update. I
have used them to good effect in projects since 1994, and now
recommend them as a core methodological element.

PEOPLE VARY

Some people like to make lists, some don't. Some work best nights,
some work best in the morning. Some like deadlines, some don't. Groups
vary similarly. Some cultures prize public self-scrutiny, others
shelter people from embarrassment, and so on.

Methodologies are largely group coordination rules, and so a
recommendation appropriate for one person or group will be rejected by
another.  What applies to a consensus-minded group might not apply to
a culture in which people wait for the boss to make a pronouncement.

In the table of projects above, I observe that the two successful
examples of high-discipline processes were in IBM's Federal Sector
Division and the Air Force. I have not yet seen high-discipline
processes succeed in commercial settings. My tentative conclusion is
that there are factors in the government / military settings that
permit the heavier methodology to survive. My few interviews in those
groups are littered with the phrase, "we'd like to work in a lighter,
more efficient manner, but...", followed by a reference either to a
military process standard or to the difficulty of controlling
subcontractors. It would be good to know whether those factors are
intrinsic, or whether those cultures simply "tolerate" the heaviness.

Methodologies currently are written to dictate the cultures and work
habits of their target organizations. As described above, the group
can, and often does, simply reject it.

Cultural variations are probably even more difficult for
methodologists to incorporate than the daily variation of
individuals. At this time, I know of no methodology that takes
cultural issues into account (including my own), although I know
people who are sensitive to the local culture while formulating
project recommendations..

OTHER CHARACTERISTICS

There are other characteristics of people I rely on, but will not
elaborate on. These are the ones on my short list:

Apprenticeship. People learn from watching and doing.  This is a
cognitive and social principle, well known in certain circles [La],
but not yet properly used in software development. I have come to look
for opportunities to apply it, but have not yet created a proper
methodological structure for it.

Flow. "Flow" in the context of programming refers to quiet and
effective thinking time [Dm], [Cs], [Co98]. Flow time must be balanced
with communication time. How to set that balance on a busy project is
beyond my current understanding. However, many interviewees marked it
as a notable project success factor.

Working from examples. Some cognitive psychologists convincingly argue
that our deductive mechanisms are built around constructing specific
examples of problems [J-L]. CRC cards and use cases are two software
development mechanisms centered on examples, and are repeatedly cited
by practitioners as effective. "Instance diagrams" are often preferred
by newcomers to object-oriented design, and still are used by
experienced designers.  Example-based documentation does not yet get
adequate support from methodologists, and is a topic for future work.

Kinesthetic or multi-sensory thinking. CRC cards, role-playing,
designing at the whiteboard, paper-prototyping of user interfaces, all
take advantage of a person talking, moving, and acting while
thinking. We are missing research on this, but I find the use of these
techniques significant in software design.

Personality profiles. We have seen the non-communicative lead designer
who alienates his or her team, and yet these superb programmers
repeatedly get put into positions requiring good communication
skills. We encounter project managers who cannot make decisions. The
fit of a particular person's personality profile to the role given
them has a large effect on the outcome of the project. This fit should
be adjusted for the person's personal growth interests, but often that
position is the only career improvement path for the individual.

Failing conservatively. It has been fairly well established that
people prefer to fail conservatively than to succeed by taking a risk
[Pi]. This may explain why waterfall development is still in use after
decades of trouble and the advent of spiral, incremental and iterative
staging techniques.

Changing habits. Getting people to change their habits is the single
hardest thing I know. And yet, people do change their habits almost
spontaneously, given a shift in value systems. I have seen this done
deliberately and consciously perhaps twice in 20 years, and it is
impressive. We could do well to understand this phenomenon better.

"Small heads". Even expert designers repeatedly say "I can only keep a
small amount of information in my head". Several documentation
techniques have tried to leverage this weakness, but none have
combined this with use of low-precision work products and high
interpersonal communication.

I am certain there are other characteristics of people that strongly
affect the way projects operate and the recommendations that we should
be making. These are the ones I currently use.

CONCLUSION

The fundamental characteristics of "people" have a first-order effect
on software development, not a lower-order effect. Consequently,
understanding this first-order effect should become a first-order
research agenda item, and not neglected as a second-order item. I
suggest that this field of study become a primary area in the field
"software engineering" for the next 20-50 years.

I presented several characteristics of people that have recognizable
effects on methodology design.

The first is that we are sensitive to communication timing and
modalities. The prediction is that physical proximity and ease of
communication has a dominant effect.

The second is that people tend to inconsistency. The prediction is
that methodologies requiring disciplined consistency are fragile in
practice.

The third is that people vary, not just daily, but from group to
group. Methodologies don't currently, but do need to deal with this
cultural variation.

The fourth is that people like to be good citizens, are good at
looking around and taking initiative. These combine to form that
common success factor, "a few good people stepped in at key moments."

Being good at communicating and looking around counter inconsistency,
leading to the prediction that methodologies can make good use of
low-precision artifacts whose gaps are covered by personal
communication.  Project histories also support this prediction,
subject to the normalization of an adequately skilled staff, including
management.

In the title, I refer to people as "components". That is how people
are treated in the process / methodology design literature. The
mistake in this approach is that "people" are highly variable and
non-linear, with unique success and failure modes. Those factors are
first-order, not negligible factors. Failure of process and
methodology designers to account for them contributes to the sorts of
unplanned project trajectories we so often see.

Finally, it should be clear that we could do with much more research
on this topic. I hope that many more researchers will pick up the
challenge now than have since Weinberg wrote his version of this
article 30 years ago. In particular, I look forward to psychological
and ethnographic research to discover other first-order effects not
mentioned here.

REFERENCES

[B87] Beck, K. and Cunningham, W., "A laboratory for teaching
object-oriented thinking", Proceedings of the OOPSLA Conference, 1987,
ACM Sigplan Oct., 1987, pp.1-7.

[B99] Beck, K., Extreme Programming Explained: Embrace Change, Addison
Wesley Longman, 1999.

[Br] Britcher, R., The Limits of Software, Addison Wesley, 1999.

[Ch] Christensen, M., et al., "The M.A.D. experience: multiperspective
application development in evolutionary prototyping", in the ECOOP'98
proceedings, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 1445, Goos, G.,
Hartmanis, J, van Leeuwen, J., eds., 1998, pp. 13-41.

[Ci] Citrin, W., Cockburn A., von Kaenel, J., Hauser, R., "Using
formalized temporal message-flow diagrams," Software Practice and
Experience, 1995.

[Co94] Cockburn A., "In search of methodology," Object Magazine, July
1994.

[Co95] Cockburn A., "Unraveling incremental development," Object
Magazine, Jan. 1995.

[Co98] Cockburn A., Surviving Object-Oriented Projects, Addison
Wesley, 1998.

[Co98p] Cockburn A., Position statement for "Software development and
process" panel, ECOOP '98, online at
http://members.aol.com/acockburn/papers/Ecoop98panel.htm

[Co00]Cockburn A., Crystal(Clear): A human-powered software
development methodology for small teams, Addison Wesley, in
prep. Online at http://members.aol.com/humansandt/crystal/clear.

[Cs] Csikszentmihalyi, M., Flow: The Psychology of Optimal Experience,
Harper Perennial, 1990

[C3] The C3 Team, "Chrysler goes to 'Extremes'", in Distributed Object
Computing, October, 1998, pp. 24-28.

[Dm] DeMarco, T., Lister, T., Peopleware 2nd Edition, Dorset House,
1999.

[EP] Extreme Programming, web notes, start from
http://www.extremeprogramming.com.

[Gr] Gries, D, The Science of Programming, Springer Verlag, 1987.

[Ha] Harel, D., Politi, M., Modeling Reactive Systems with
Statecharts, McGraw-Hill, 1998.

[Hi] Highsmith, J., Adaptive Software Development, Dorset House, 1999.

[Ho] Hovenden, F., "An ethnographic account of writing use cases on an
IT project", Humans and Technology Technical Memo, 1999.10.30, online
at http://members.aol.com/humansandt/papers/ethno1.htm.

[Hu] Humphrey, W., A Discipline for Softwrae Engineering, Addison
Wesley, 1995.

[Je] Jeffries, R., "Extreme testing", in Software Testing and Quality
Engineering, March/April, 1999, pp. 23-26.

[J-L] Johnson-Laird, P. and Byrne, R. Deduction, Lawrence Erlbaum
Associates, 1991.

[La] Lave, J., Situation Learning: Legitimate Peripheral
Participation, Cambridge Press, 1991.

[Mi] Mills, H., Dyer, M., Linger, R., "Cleanroom Software
Engineering," IEEE Software Vol 2 (1984) No. 9, 19-24.

[NASA] JSC38609, "Deorbit flight software lessons learned", NASA
Johnson Space Center, Jan 19, 1998 online at

[Pi] Piatelli-Palmarini, M., Inevitable Illusions : How Mistakes of
Reason Rule Our Minds, Wiley &amp; Sons, 1996.

[Pl] Plowman, L., "The interfunctionality of talk and text", Computer
Support of Cooperative Work, vol. 3, 1995, pp.229-246.

[Si] Sillince, J.A., "A model of social, emotional and symbolic
aspects of computer-mediated communication within organizations",
Computer Support of Cooperative Work vol. 4, 1996, pp. 1-31.

[Web] Webb, D., Humphrey, W., "Using TSP on the TaskView Project", in
CrossTalk, The Journal of Defense Software Engineering, Feb 1999,
pp. 3-10, online at
http://www.stsc.hill.af.mil/crosstalk/1999/feb/webb.asp

[Wei] Weinberg, J., The Psychology of Computer Programming, Silver
Edition, Dorset House, 1998.

[Yo] Yourdon, E., Death March Projects, Prentice Hall, 1997.
