To: 0xdeadbeef@petting-zoo.net
Subject: Priest, Preacher, Rabbi and The Bear
Date: Tue, 01 Apr 2003 13:56:09 -0800


A priest, a rabbi and a Pentecostal preacher all served as chaplains
to the students of a very large college campus that shall remain
unnamed.  They would get together two or three times a week for coffee
and to talk "shop".

One day someone made the comment that preaching to people isn't really
that hard.  A real challenge would be to preach to a bear.  One thing
led to another and before it was over they decided to do a 7 day
experiment.  They would all go out into the woods, find a bear and
preach to it.

It's now 7 days later and they're all together to discuss the
experience.

Father O'Flannery, who has his arm in a sling, is on crutches, and has
various bandages goes first.

"Wellll," he says in a fine Irish brouge, "Ey wint oot into th' wooods
to fynd me a bearr.  Oond when Ey fund him Ey began to rread to him
from the Baltimorre Chatecism.  Welll, thet bearr wanted naught to do
wi' me und begun to slap me aboot.  So I quick grrabbed me holy water
and, THE SAINTS BE PRAISED, he became as gintle as a lamb.  The bishop
is cooming oot next wik to give him fierst communion und
confierrmation."

Reverend Billy Bob speaks next.  He's in a wheel chair, with an arm
and both legs in casts and an I.V. drip.

In his best fire and brimstone oratory he proclaims, "WELL brothers
....you KNOW that we don't sprinkle...  .....WE DUNK!  I went out and
I FOUND me a bear.  And then I began to read to him from Lord's
HOOOOLY WORD!  But that bear wanted nothing to do with me.  I SAY NO!
He wanted NOTHING to do with me.  So I took HOOOLD of him and we began
to rassle.  We rassled down one hill, UP another and DOWN another
untill we come to a crick.  So'se I quick DUNK him and BAPTIZE his
hairy soul.  An' jus like you you sez, he wuz gentle as a lamb.  We
spent the rest of the week in fellowship, feasting on Lord's HOOOOLY
word."

They both look down at the rabbi who's laying in a hospital bed.  He's
in a body cast & traction with IVs and monitors running in and out of
him.

The rabbi looks up and says, "Oy!  You don't know what tough is until
you try to circumcise one!"
