			 REFLECTIONS ON BEER!


Buy a man a beer and he wastes an hour.
Teach a man to brew and he wastes a lifetime.

"You can't be a real country unless you have a beer and an airline.
It helps if you have some kind of a football team, or some nuclear
weapons, but at the very least you need a beer." --Frank Zappa

"Always do sober what you said you'd do drunk. That will teach you to
keep your mouth shut."  --Ernest Hemmingway

"Always remember that I have taken more out of alcohol than alcohol
has taken out of me."  --Winston Churchill

"He was a wise man who invented beer."  --Plato

"Time is never wasted when you're wasted all the time."  --Catherine
Zandonella

"A woman drove me to drink and I didn't even have the decency to thank
her." - W.C. Fields

"Sir, if you were my husband, I would poison your drink."
	--Lady Astor to Winston Churchill.
"Madam, if you were my wife, I would drink it."
	--Churchill's reply

"If God had intended us to drink beer, He would have given us
stomachs." - David Daye

"Work is the curse of the drinking class." --Oscar Wilde

"When I read about the evils of drinking, I gave up reading."
--Henny Youngman

"Beer is proof that God loves us and wants us to be happy."
--Benjamin Franklin

"If you ever reach total enlightenment while drinking beer, I bet it
makes beer shoot out your nose."  --"Deep Thoughts," by Jack Handy

"Without question, the greatest invention in the history of mankind is
beer. Oh, I grant you that the wheel was also a fine invention, but
the wheel does not go nearly as well with pizza."  --Dave Barry

"The problem with the world is that everyone is a few drinks behind."
--Humphrey Bogart

"Why is American beer served cold? So you can tell it from urine."
--David Moulton

"People who drink light "beer" don't like the taste of beer; they just
like to pee a lot." - Capital Brewery, Middleton, WI

"Give me a woman who loves beer and I will conquer the world."
--Kaiser Welhelm

"I would kill everyone in this room for a drop of sweet beer."
--Homer Simpson

"Not all chemicals are bad. Without chemicals such as hydrogen and
oxygen, for example, there would be no way to make water, a vital
ingredient in beer." --Dave Barry

"I drink to make other people interesting."  --George Jean Nathan

"They who drink beer will think beer."  --Washington Irving

"An intelligent man is sometimes forced to be drunk to spend time with
his fools." --Ernest Hemmingway (For Whom the Bell Tolls)

"You're not drunk if you can lie on the floor without holding on."
--Dean Martin

"All right, brain, I don't like you and you don't like me-so let's
just do this and I'll get back to killing you with beer."
--Homer Simpson
