	       A SOUTHERNER'S ADVICE TO NEW NORTHERNER

 1. Save all manner of bacon grease. You will be instructed later how
    to use it.

 2. If you forget a Southerner's name, refer to him (or her) as
    "Bubba". You have a 75% chance of being right.

 3. Just because you can drive on snow and ice does not mean we can.
    Stay home the two days of the year it snows.

 4. If you do run your car into a ditch, don't panic.  Four men in the
    cab of a four wheel drive with a 12-pack of beer and a tow chain
    will be along shortly. Don't try to help them. Just stay out of
    their way.  This is what they live for.

 5. Don't be surprised to find movie rentals and bait in the same
    store.

 6. Do not buy food at the movie store.

 7. If it can't be fried in bacon grease, it ain't worth cooking, let
    alone eating.

 8. Remember: "Y'all" is singular.  "All y'all" is plural. "All
    y'all's" is plural possessive.

 9. There is nothing sillier than a Northerner imitating a southern
    accent, unless it is a southerner imitating a Boston accent.

 10. Get used to hearing, "You ain't from around here, are you?"

 11. People walk slower here.

 12. Don't be worried that you don't understand anyone.  They don't
     understand you either.

 13. The first Southern expression to creep into a transplanted
     Northerner's vocabulary is the adjective "Big ol'", as in "big
     ol' truck" or "big ol' boy".  Eighty-five percent begin their new
     southern influenced dialect with this expression.  One hundred
     percent are in denial about it.

 14. The proper pronunciation you learned in school is no longer
     proper.

 15. Be advised:  The "He needed killin'" defense is valid here.

 16. If attending a funeral in the South, remember, we stay until the
     last shovel of dirt is thrown on and the tent is torn down.

 17. If you hear a Southerner exclaim, "Hey, y'all, watch this!"  stay
     out of his way.  These are likely the last words he will ever
     say.

 18. Most Southerners do not use turn signals, and they ignore those
     who do.  In fact, if you see a signal blinking on a car with a
     southern license plate, you may rest assured that it was on when
     the car was purchased.

 19. Northerners can be identified by the spit on the inside of their
     car's windshield that comes from yelling at other drivers.

 20. The winter wardrobe you always brought out in September can wait
     until November.

 21. If there is the prediction of the slightest chance of even the
     most minuscule accumulation of snow, your presence is required at
     the local grocery store.  It does not matter if you need anything
     from the store, it is just something you're supposed to do.

 22. Satellite dishes are very popular in the South.  When you
     purchase one it is to be positioned directly in front of your
     trailer.  This is logical bearing in mind that the dish cost
     considerably more than the trailer and should, therefore, be
     displayed.

 23. Tornadoes and Southerners going through a divorce have a lot in
     common.  In either case, you know someone is going to lose a
     trailer.

 24. Florida is not considered a southern state.  There are far more
     Yankees than Southerners living there.

 25. In southern churches you will here the hymn, All Glory, Laud and
     Honor.  You will also here expressions such as, "Laud, have
     mercy", "Good Laud", and "Laudy, Laudy, Laudy".>

 26. As you are cursing the person driving 15 mph in a 55 mph zone,
     directly in the middle of the road, remember, many folks learned
     to drive on a model of vehicle known as John Deere, and this is
     the proper speed and lane position for the vehicle.

 27. You can ask a Southerner for directions, but unless you already
     know the positions of key hills, trees and rocks, you're better
     off trying to find it yourself.
