STALLMAN: SOFTWARE PATENTS VICTIMISE DEVELOPERS

Thursday 28th March 2002
Matt Loney


Part I: Software patents are victimising developers with a system
which is making it increasingly difficult to write programs, according
to free software guru Richard Stallman


In a talk earlier this week, Richard Stallman described software
patents as a sort of lottery, bringing benefits to people only rarely.


Stallman is well known among free software fans as the writer of the
GNU Public Licence, the licensing model used by most open-source
software writers to ensure that any improvements, additions or changes
of any sort to their software is contributed back to the community.

On Monday afternoon Richard Stallman was invited by the Foundation for
Information Policy Research to speak at the Cambridge University
Computer Lab on the issue of software patents.


Stallman kicked off his talk by explaining that he does not have a
problem with patenting individual programs -- "that would be harmless"
-- but with patenting ideas. "That is what makes them (patents) a
dangerous obstacle to software development."


Equally, the term "intellectual property" should not be used,
according to Stallman, because it is biased. "It makes the assumption
that you should treat what you're talking about as property. That is
not conducive to clear, open-minded thinking."


The following is a transcribed version of Stallman's speech:


Patents are like the lottery
----------------------------

Stallman: Most people who tell you about the patent system have a
stake in it, and so they want you to like it. But patents are like the
lottery because they only rarely bring benefits to people. Lotteries
invite you to think about winning, never about losing, and it is the
same with the patenting system.


Let's talk about patents from the point of view of the victims; that
is the software developers. The first thing you do after you have an
idea for what sort of software you want to write, is to find out what
patents may cover the area. This is impossible, because some patent
applications pending are secret. They may get published after 18
months, but that is plenty of time for you to write your own program
and publish it.


For instance, in 1984 the Compress program was written. At that time
there was no patent on the LZW (compression) algorithm, but the LZW
patent was pending at the time, and was granted in 1985. Over next few
years those who distributed Compress started getting threats. All the
Compress programmer did was use an idea he had found in a journal,
just like software authors had always done.


The trouble with discovery
--------------------------

Issued patents are published by the patent office, so you can find the
whole list, but you could never read the whole list because there are
too many of them, and you could not keep track them.


So you would have to search for the related patents ones. Some say
that should be easy, and it will work to an extent -- you may find
some, but not all. For instance, there was one patent on natural order
recalculation in spreadsheets; natural order recalculation means that
every cell gets recalculated after the cells it depends on, so that
everything is always up to date. This is known as topological
sorting. The patent I found in 1963 covered several ways you could
implement this sorting, but it did not mention the key words
(topological sorting or natural order recalculation). In fact it
described as method of combining formulae into object code; when I
first saw it I thought it was the wrong patent.


So even if you have a list of patents, try studying them. It is very
hard to understand them because they are written in tortuous legal
language. There was an Australian government study of the patent
system in the 80s and this decided that aside from the fact of
international pressure there was no reason to have the system. One
thing they found was that engineers do not bother to read patents to
understand them because they are too difficult.


So what now? There are three approaches to dealing with patents:
avoiding the patent; licensing the patent; or overturning the patent
in court.



Part II: There are three ways to get around the problems of software
patents, says Richard Stallman. But it's a minefield, and the chances
of making a wrong step are high


In the second part of Richard Stallman's speech at the Cambridge
Computer Lab, the free software guru explains how software developers
can avoid software patents.


Tackling software patents I: Avoidance
--------------------------------------

Stallman: The best way to avoid a software patent is to not use the
idea that is covered by the patent. In some cases a feature is
patented, so you avoid it by not implementing the feature.


But of course you then have to ask yourself how important is that
feature? In some cases you can live without it. For instance, users of
the xyWrite word processor once got a downgrade through the mail,
removing a feature that let you define abbreviations for long words
and phrases. The developers of xyWrite had tried negotiating with the
patent holder, but finally decided to remove the feature. For a single
feature this might be acceptable, but as various features start
getting hit (by patent claims) you end up with a program that is no
good.


For instance, what do you do with the BT patent on traversing
hyperlinks together with dial-up access? Traversing hyperlinks is
essential. How do you do without this feature? Then there is the
public key encryption patent. In the US, this largely blocked public
key encryption for ten years because the patent holders imposed
restrictions. There was no way around that patent, and there was
nothing else you could do if you wanted to use public key encryption
in your products.


In some cases of course you might be able to find a better
algorithm. Because we could not use the compress algorithm in the GNU
project, we started looking for a better data compression
algorithm. We ended up with GZIP. As an algorithm to use in a program
for data compression GZIP worked fine, but when we started saying to
tell people to stop using gif files (which used the patented LZW
compression), people said we can't switch, the browsers don't support
it yet, and browser companies said nobody's using it yet. There was so
much inertia that we have not been able to switch people in ten years.


So avoiding software patents may be easy, but it may also be
impossible. And where it is easy, it may make a program useless; it
varies depending on the situation.


And sometimes a company can take a format and make it a de facto
standard, and then if that is patented it is a real disaster. There
was uproar recently when the W3C proposed to start adopting standards
that were covered by patent. The community objected and the W3C
reversed its decision.


Tackling software patents II: Licensing
---------------------------------------

Licensing a patent is not necessarily an option, because the patent
holder does not have to offer you a licence. A lot of patent holders
do offer licences, but sometimes they demand a lot of money. Some
demand 5 percent -- you might be able to afford this, but what if you
have licence 20 patents to make a program? Practically speaking two or
three licences will make any business plan unfeasible.


However, there is a situation where licensing patents is a good idea:
if you are a multinational mega corporation that owns lots of patents
and cross-licenses them.


An IBM employee published an article in Think magazine in 1990, saying
it got two kinds of benefits from patents: the first benefit was from
collecting royalties, and the second benefit was in getting access to
the patents of other companies. He also said that this second benefit
was an order of magnitude greater then the first.


So the benefit of being able to license patents from others was ten
times the benefit of licensing its own patents. Being able to do this
meant IBM was excused from the trouble the patent system can cause
you.


This phenomenon of cross-licensing refutes a common myth: the myth of
a starving genius; the myth that patents protect small inventors (and
protect is a propaganda term).


Suppose there is a brilliant inventor who spent years starving and
designing a new whatever, and he now wants to manufacture it. For a
start, people in high-tech fields do not generally work on their own,
and these people have pretty good chances of getting a job anyway, so
the scenario of one starving person working alone is unrealistic. But
it is conceivable; they could have a good idea. So what happens if the
inventor tries to use a patent to stop a big company? IBM simply says:
"Let's look at your product; we have these patents that parts of your
patent infringe -- can you fight these in court? Why don't you
cross-licence with us?"  The small guy says OK, and he goes away and
makes this stuff, and IBM goes away and gets access to his patent, and
competes, so patent did not ever really "protect" him.


Big corporations mainly see the good side of patents; that is why they
want patents. IBM can almost always make you cross-licence, but the
small companies can only occasionally do this.


Tackling software patents III: Litigation
-----------------------------------------

Supposedly for a patent to be granted, something has to be new,
usable and non-obvious. But when the patent office gets into the
game, "new" means "we don't have it in our files", and "unobvious"
means unobvious to someone with an IQ of 50.


The US Patent Office does things that are so obviously foolish: for
instance, the famous Harvard mouse patent, dealing with a strain of
mouse that had a cancer-causing gene. The gene was already known, the
insertion technique was already known, and the strain of mouse was
already known. The patent essentially covered inserting any gene into
any creature. Such over-broadening is common.


When programmers look at a lot of software patents they may say they
are obvious, but the patent officers say you have to consider it in
the context of 10 years ago. What happens is that if they talk enough
you lose your bearings. Then they describe the patent holders as
brilliant inventors, so we cannot question their entitlement to power
over what we already do. In a court a judge may be a little more
stringent, but it costs millions of dollars to do that.


The courts are an option, but because of the expense they incur they
are often out of the question, even if you can find prior art. As a
result, an invalid patent is a dangerous tool.


So all three of these possibilities are things that you might
sometimes be able to use, but if you face patent after patent after
patent, it gets like crossing a minefield. With each design decision
you might not have a problem, but as you take each step your chances
of getting all the way through the minefield get less and less.


Part III: Writing software is like writing a symphony, says Richard
Stallman, founder of the Free Software Foundation. Just imagine if
music could be patented...


In the third part of his speech at the Cambridge Computer Lab, Richard
Stallman explains why building software is not like building physical
projects, and offers two solutions to the problem of software patents:
one for Europe where software patents are not widely granted and one
for the US where the situation already seems to be out of control.


Software patents: Should there be a special case?
-------------------------------------------------

Stallman: People say, if patents are allowed in other fields, why
should software be exempt? This question contains a presumption that
we should all suffer together, but there lies behind it a less biased
question, which is: is software really so different from other fields?
And, should patents work differently in different fields?


Well yes, patents do work differently in other fields. In biotech for
instance, one product might be affected by a patent. If a new product
is developed, that is protected separately. There is a naive idea that
there is one patent per product, that it covers the idea of that
product.


Software is at the opposite extreme, because software packages are
very big, and because they use different ideas in different ways. You
have to implement these ideas in this combination -- you cannot just
say their names and expect them to work. So when you write a program
you are using lots of ideas, some of which might patented, but they
are working together in ways that might be patented, so where there
could be thousands of ideas that might conflict with existing patents.


This is why patents obstruct development of products.


There is economic research showing how imposing the patent system on a
field where there is incremental innovation can retard
progress. Advocates say: "yes, there might be problems, but the patent
system promotes innovation so the problems don't matter."


In fact, there is no reason to believe the patent system does promote
progress.


Extreme software
----------------

Why is software at this extreme? Because we are developing idealized
mathematical concepts. We can build a castle and rest it on a thin
line, and it will stay up. In other fields you have to deal with
matter, and make physical objects that work.


But if I want to put an 'if' statement inside a 'while' statement I
don't have to worry whether the 'if statement will oscillate against
the 'while' statement and eventually fracture. I don't have to worry
about whether the 'if' statement will dissipate heat well enough, or
whether a voltage drop across the 'if' statement will stop the 'while'
statement from working or, if it is working under water, whether salt
water will get between the two statements and corrode them. I don't
have to worry about how I will physically assemble each copy, and
whether I can physically get access during construction to put one
statement inside the other, and I don't have to worry about how, if
one breaks, I will replace it.


There are so many problems we don't have to worry about in software,
that it is fundamentally easier to develop software than it is to
develop physical products. This sounds strange to some people. But I'm
comparing physical and software systems of the same complexity, the
same number of parts. So what do we do when we are confronted with an
easy field (such as software)? We push it further; we make software
systems far bigger in terms of number of parts than physical
systems. A physical system with a million pieces is a mega project; a
software system with a million pieces, is a few hundred thousand lines
of code; many programmers write that in a few years.


What's more, if you have designed physical product then you have to
build a factory to make it. To make a copy of a program you type
'copy', and the same copy command will copy any program. So you don't
have to build a factory to make the product. There is a tremendous
simplification and a tremendous reduction of costs when designing
software systems.


So software really is different from other fields, because we are
working with mathematical stuff; designing products is far easier; and
we make systems that are much larger with just a few people. The
result is that our products involve many ideas that could be patented
already.


If symphonies were patented
---------------------------

In some ways writing software is like writing a symphony: you use many
notes and many ideas that have been used before. Imagine if the
European governments of the 17th century had built a musical patent
office. Now imagine it's 1800 and you're Beethoven: you want to write
a symphony and make it legal. Well, you'll find it impossible, and
when you complain, the patent holders will say: "Oh Beethoven you're
just bitching because you've got no ideas of your own."


Well, Beethoven had lots of good ideas, but he also used other
people's ideas. Nobody is so brilliant they can create completely new
music that everyone wants to listen to, and nobody can create software
that does not use existing ideas. Of course a new word processor will
have new ideas, but it must also use many old ideas. And because the
job of software development is so huge, we don't need any artificial
system to incentivise people to have new ideas; just sit people down
and they will come up with new ideas as they work.


Before software patents, most developers published new ideas they
thought they would get credit for. Now the patent system is supposed
to encourage disclosure of new ideas. But in the old days nobody kept
ideas secret; they did keep the code secret, but they published the
ideas; that way employees got credit and felt good. After patents they
still kept code secret but now they keep the ideas too. So patenting
has not encouraged any disclosure. So now, the ideas that have been
patented are likely to be off limit for 20 years.


The solution
------------

How do we change the policy to solve this problem? Two places: in the
patent office, and where the patents are being applied.


Changing the criteria for issuing patents can work in a country that
has not authorised software patents before -- for instance in most
parts of Europe. Simply by modifying patent laws to say software ideas
cannot be patented this will keep problem out of Europe.


That won't work in the US because the US already has large numbers of
software patents, and it would not get rid of existing patents. In the
US something would have to be done to change the scope of patents;
perhaps by saying that general purpose software running on a
computer's system that itself does not infringe a patent cannot be
attacked.


But the first idea is a good solution for Europe to use. When the US
started having software patents there was no political debate and
nobody noticed. Throughout the 80s we didn't know about this problem,
and it was not until about 1990 that programmers did become aware.


In Europe there has been a big political debate. Free-software
developers have taken the lead, but we are not the only ones
threatened; all software developers and even software users are
threatened.


A lot of the impetus for patenting software more widely in Europe
comes from the UK patent office. It had a public consultation, and
most responses were opposed to software patents, but it then wrote a
report saying people seemed to be content with them. The UK patent
office uses a term called technical effect -- this is a term that can
stretch tremendously. The result is that the UK patent office is
promoting something that looks like it helps solves the problem but
that really gives carte blanche for patenting anything.


If the business that used computers realised how much trouble this
could cause for them they would be up in arms. Sometimes bureaucracy
can be useful, but when it does not serve any purpose except to create
artificial monopolies it does no good.


The battle is not over. It still can be won.



Article copyright ZDNet UK
This document saved from http://news.zdnet.co.uk/story/0,,s2107497,00.html
