How many forum members does it take to change a lightbulb?
----------------------------------------------------------

1 to change the light bulb and to post that the light bulb has been
changed.

14 to share similar experiences of changing light bulbs and how the
light bulb could have been changed differently.

7 to caution about the dangers of changing light bulbs.

1 to move it to the Lighting section.

2 to argue then move it to the Electricals section.

7 to point out spelling/grammar errors in posts about changing light bulbs.

5 to flame the spell checkers.

3 to correct spelling/grammar flames.

6 to argue over whether it's "lightbulb" or "light bulb" ... another 6
to condemn those 6 as stupid.

2 industry professionals to inform the group that the proper term is "lamp".

15 know-it-alls who claim they were in the industry, and that "light
bulb" is perfectly correct.

19 to post that this forum is not about light bulbs and to please take
this discussion to a lightbulb forum.

11 to defend the posting to this forum saying that we all use light
bulbs and therefore the posts are relevant to this forum.

36 to debate which method of changing light bulbs is superior, where
to buy the best light bulbs, what brand of light bulbs work best for
this technique and what brands are faulty.

7 to post URL's where one can see examples of different light bulbs.

4 to post that the URL's were posted incorrectly and then post the
corrected URL's.

3 to post about links they found from the URL's that are relevant to
this group which makes light bulbs relevant to this group.

5 people to hotlink to pictures of lightbulbs hosted on geocities.

6 people to complain about dead images.

3 people to tell them to right click the image and copy the URL into
another window.

13 to read all posts to date, quote them in their entirety including
all headers, images and signatures, and add "I agree".

5 to post to the group that they will no longer post because they
cannot handle the light bulb controversy.

4 to say "didn't we go through this already a short time ago?".

13 to say "do a search on light bulbs before posting questions about
light bulbs".

1 forum lurker to respond to the original post 6 months from now and
start it all over again.
