Newsgroups: alt.humor.best-of-usenet
Subject: [rec.games.frp.dnd] Re: O MY FUCKING GOD
Date: 16 Mar 2000 16:13:49 GMT


On Tue, 14 Mar 2000 20:48:39 GMT, bb_herogoth@my-deja.com wrote:

Translation from Butthead to English provided as a public service, and
should not be construed as an endorsement of the "ideas" contained
within the post.


>what the wnaking wank is that all about

I say, chaps, does anyone know what precisely what those fellows at
Wizards of the Coast is thinking?


>y am i hearing this fuck about stupid hiooys takin over wotc and turning
>dnd into a shit-fuck hippy game with stupid eco treehuggin elfs and
>namby pamby fuck-shit pixis

Someone has kindly passed on some information about the new leadership
at the aforementioned corporation; it seems that they are attempting
to use the third edition of Dungeons and Dragons as a vehicle for
ecological activism.  These rumors, which are, I should stress,
unsubstantiated, claim that elves will now follow the druidic
philosophy to a man.  The rumors also imply that the game will contain
pixies, whose very presence I strongly disapprove of.


>noone woud ever do that to tolkin tolkien fux swampy sux

I cannot imagine that this travesty could possibly continue to claim
derivation from the words of Tolkien.  Tolkien's works are supreme
among fantasy, and these modifications just aren't cricket!


>i dont want sutpid kids witrh hippy shti playing it its and ADULTS GAME
>for fucking helsl sake

I am concerned about the possibility that the young ones will begin
playing the game in greater numbers, which will be particularly
irritating if those children follow the lifestyle embraced by the
liberal American "drop-outs" of the 1960s and early 1970s.  Dungeons
and Dragons is a game intended for adults, after all.


>always syain "ooh trees produce so they should be saved from collars
>coporote treefuggers stupid fuck

The constant refrain of the execrable individuals is that "Trees are
our only source of oxygen, so they should be protected from corporate
interests."  I do not agree with this statement.


>well fuck-shit mty fuckwank arsebiscuits its all a load of stit coz they
>dont prudoce air they just nmade it up theonly reason animles and plants
>r here is so we canuse em for our own ends like paper and shjit

In fact, I can't disagree with this strongly enough; I do not believe
that biologists are being entirely forthright with us.  As God told
Noah, all living things upon the earth are subjected to the mastery of
man, and therefore liberal ecologists are treading upon my religious
beliefs.  After all, we use trees for paper, and if it were not for
paper they could not publish Dungeons and Dragons at all, could they?


>stupid treehuggin

I find such individuals distasteful, don't you?


>Sent via Deja.com http://www.deja.com/
>Before you buy.

And, in case anyone was wondering, I am a middle school student
posting this message from the public terminal of a library.  My
parents do not wish me to use their computer, as they fear I might
post incoherent rants to public forums and open myself up to ridicule
and satire.
