To: 0xdeadbeef
Subject: Zimbabwe Perspective on the US Election
Date: Thu, 14 Dec 2000 11:23:19 -0800

A Zimbabwe politician was quoted as saying that children should
study the US election closely because it shows that election fraud
is not only a third world phenomenon.  To illustrate his point, he
made the following comments.

"Imagine that we read of an election occurring anywhere in the
third world in which the self-declared winner was the son of the
former prime minister and that former prime minister was himself
the former head of that nation's secret police (the CIA).

Imagine that the self-declared winner lost the popular vote but
won based on some old colonial holdover from the nation's pre-democracy
past (the electoral college).

Imagine that the self-declared winner's "victory" turned on disputed
votes cast in a province governed by his brother!

Imagine that poorly drafted ballots of one district, a district
heavily favoring the self-declared winner's opponent, led thousands
of voters to vote for the wrong candidate.

Imagine that members of that nation's most despised caste, fearing
for their lives/livelihoods, turned out in record numbers to vote
in near-universal opposition to the self-declared winner's candidacy.
But imagine further that hundreds of members of that most-despised
caste were intercepted on their way to the polls by state police
operating under the authority of the self-declared winner's brother.

Imagine that six million people voted in the disputed province and
that the self-declared winner's 'lead' was only a few hundred votes.
Fewer, certainly, than the vote counting machines' margin of error.

Imagine that the self-declared winner and his political party
opposed a more careful by-hand inspection and recounting of the
ballots in the disputed province and in its most hotly disputed
district.

Imagine that the self-declared winner, himself a governor of a
major province, had the worst human rights record of any province
in his nation and actually led the nation in executions.

Imagine that a major campaign promise of the self-declared winner
was to appoint like-minded human rights violators to lifetime
positions on the high court of that nation.

None of us would deem such an election to be representative of
anything other than the self-declared winner's will-to-power.  All
of us, I imagine, would wearily turn the page thinking that it was
another sad tale of pitiful pre- or anti-democracy peoples in some
strange, faraway elsewhere."
